[singing voice] Aniplex.
[Rin] It's freezing here.
What happened?
This window pane
is completely smashed in.
That's not my fault.
I was defending myself against
that Lancer guy.
Wait, you fought him all
on your own until you were able
to summon Saber?
Hardly.
I couldn't even fight back.
Huh.
You're not even trying
to brag about it.
I see.
You are exactly how you look.
Super honest.
[Mashiro Ayano's "Ideal White"]
♪♪ ♪♪
[Mashiro singing in Japanese]
[slurps]
[exhales]
All right,
why don't we get down
to business?
You have absolutely no idea what
you're caught up in, do you?
Mm‐mm.
To be totally blunt,
you've been chosen by the Grail
to be a master.
[Rin] Have you noticed
a stigmata somewhere
on your body?
Stigmata?
[Saber] She means command seals,
Shirou.
[dramatic music]
Uh, oh.
This?
Yes.
Those are the proof that you are
a master.
They are also spells
that control your servant,
So as long as you still have
at least one of those,
you can keep your servant
under control.
[Shirou] What do you mean,
"As long as I still have them?"
[Rin] Command seals
are unbreakable orders.
Spells that can force
your servant
to obey even if it means
bending them to your will.
You used one.
You forced Saber
to break off her attack earlier.
Remember?
However, you only get
three command seals
for the whole war,
so you really should try not
to waste them.
You'll probably be killed
if you use them all too soon,
so I suggest
you be very careful.
Wait, I'll be killed?
That's right.
The Holy Grail War
is completely based
around masters defeating
other masters.
The one who defeats
the other six wins
the Holy Grail,
which is an omnipotent
wish‐granting cup.
Hey, wait.
Hold on a second.
Why are you telling me this?
Well,
because you've gotten dragged
into a certain ritual.
It's the Holy Grail War fought
by seven masters.
A battle
to the death between mages.
Do you really expect me
to believe that?
I'm simply laying out
the facts as they are.
Besides,
deep inside,
you actually know already,
don't you?
[Rin] After all,
you've nearly been killed
by a servant not once but twice.
[grunts]
[Rin] Convinced yet?
I'm another mage chosen
to be a master.
Think of your servant
as a familiar granted to you
by the Grail to help you survive
the Holy Grail War.
[grunts]
She doesn't look much like
a familiar to me.
Well, of course she doesn't.
Servants
are technically familiars
but they're really
superhuman beings‐‐
heroic spirits from the past.
A hero from the past?
Saber?
That's right.
Servants are heroic spirits
from legend
from the past or present
that are pulled into our time
and given form and substance.
[Rin] It's the master's role
to summon them
and once materialized,
the Grail helps them keep
their physical forms.
[grunts]
[Rin] Servants
are basically always with you
in spirit form,
and should the need arise,
you can materialize them
and make them fight
on your behalf.
[Shirou] So the guy
in red can change between spirit
and physical forms at will.
[Rin] That's Archer.
He's keeping watch outside
for now.
Do you understand so far?
Yeah, I guess I do,
sort of.
[Rin] For
a more detailed explanation,
you should talk
to the man overseeing
the Grail War
Now, there's something important
you should keep in mind.
You have no choice but
to fight once
you've been chosen,
and the servants
are powerful familiars
so make sure you use yours well.
[Shirou exhales sharply]
Now for you.
From what I understand,
based on what Emiya said,
I gather you're in
an incomplete state, Saber?
Yes.
As you've accurately stated,
I am not
at full fighting strength.
The fact is,
Shirou is not a trained master,
so even replenishing mana
will be difficult.
[gasps]
That's pretty shocking.
Hey, I'm confused.
What are you guys talkin' about?
[Rin] A servant maintains
its physical existence
in this world by being supplied
with mana by its master,
but she can't get
an adequate amount
of mana from you because you're
a novice
and you don't know how to focus.
[tea pouring]
It'll be a problem
before too long.
Oh, would you like a cup of tea?
I'm good.
I have to say,
I didn't expect you
to be so open with me
about all this.
There was no point in lying.
You had already realized
that something was indeed wrong.
Therefore...
I decided to let you know
the truth about my condition
so that Shirou can get
a clear view
of his current circumstances.
Wow, she's the king all right.
[exhales sharply]
[Rin grunts]
Dammit!
What a stupid waste!
If I were Saber's master,
I'd win this war easily!
Why'd she go
to a newbie like him?
Hey, are you trying to say
that I'm not worthy of her?
Of course I am,
you hack!
Huh?
[Rin groans]
Okay.
Come on.
Shall we go?
What?
Where are we going?
To see the man
who knows everything
there is to know about
the Grail War.
I mean, you do want to know
the reason behind it, don't you?
[Shirou] Yeah, of course I do,
but it's getting really late.
It's what?
You won't go?
Oh, well.
Whatever.
That's your call to make.
What about you, Saber?
[Shirou] Leave Saber out
of this!
Don't try to strong arm her!
Oh, so I guess you do think like
a master.
You don't want me talking
to Saber, do you?
W‐‐Why would I give a damn?
Jeez, I'm beginning
to feel like there's something
really messed up about her.
Uh, anyway,
Saber is a hero from the past,
right?
So she's just gonna be confused.
She won't be able to make sense
of the modern world.
[Saber] Shirou,
that is not true.
[grunts]
[Saber] Servants adapt
to whatever time period
they find themselves in.
As such, I am quite familiar
with this era.
You're familiar with it?
How can that be?
[Saber] Of course.
This is not the first time
that I have been summoned
to this time in history.
What?
No way.
What are the odds of that?
So then.
Where is it we are going?
[grunts]
[Rin] The church in New City.
[jewelry jingling]
[gasps]
[grunts]
[Shirou] Why do you suppose
Saber isn't coming in with us?
[Rin] She said earlier
that she'd been summoned
to this era before.
So maybe something happened
between her
and the fake priest we're here
to see.
[Shirou] Tohsaka, what kind
of person is this priest?
[Rin] At one time he
was my father's pupil.
After Father died,
he became my guardian.
I suppose that makes him both
my senior disciple
and my second mentor.
[Shirou] Wait a minute.
So the priest is also a mage?
[Rin] Yeah.
Like I said,
a genuine fake priest.
[Kirei] You never accepted
my invitations to come by.
And now here you are
with an odd guest.
I take it this means that he
is the seventh.
Rin.
[grunts]
My name is Kirei Kotomine.
Perhaps you will tell me
your name.
Or shall I call you
Seventh Master?
Shirou Emiya.
Emiya?
[Kirei scoffs]
‐ [grunts]
‐ [chuckles]
I take it, then,
that you are now Saber's master,
young Shirou Emiya.
[Shirou] I made a pact
with Saber,
if that's what you mean,
but all this stuff about masters
and servants
and the Holy Grail War is just
a lot of gibberish to me.
If a master is supposed
to be a proper mage
then you really ought
to pick somebody else
for your war.
Yes, I see.
This is quite serious indeed.
He knows nothing.
You need to start
from square one.
Ah.
Very well.
This is the first time you
have ever come
to me for assistance.
[Kirei] Shirou Emiya.
The status of master cannot
be yielded to another,
and once conferred,
cannot be simply
walked away from.
Being a master is a trial
for those who have been chosen.
You will not be freed
from the burden of that pain
until you win the grail.
Now listen carefully.
The battle you now
find yourself caught up in
is known by all involved
as the Holy Grail War.
The messed up war
where seven masters fight
to the death?
Is that what you mean?
It is a ritual meant
to seek out and select
the one mage who is worthy
of holding the grail.
[Shirou] Now, wait.
This Holy Grail you keep
going on about,
you don't mean "the Holy Grail,"
do you?
The Grail that appears
in this city
is the genuine article.
For proof,
one need look no further
than the miracle of the servants
and the heroic spirits
that inhabit them.
‐ [Shirou grunts]
‐ [Kirei] A Holy Grail capable
of that will surely grant
the master who holds it
limitless power.
The item's authenticity
is irrelevant
in the face of such a fact.
[Shirou] Well,
why make people go through
this Holy Grail War thing, then?
If it's that powerful,
why doesn't everyone
just share it?
A fair opinion,
to be sure,
but only one master may win
the Holy Grail.
It was not mages who imposed
that restriction,
but rather
the Holy Grail itself.
[gasps]
It decided?
How is that?
Everything around you
is the work of the Grail itself.
It selects its true owner
by having seven masters fight
over it.
And that is the Holy Grail War.
[grunts]
Well, I'm still not convinced.
[Shirou] Even if only one
can be chosen,
I don't like it that
that person has
to kill all the other masters.
[Rin] Hold on a second.
There's no rule
that says we have
to kill each other, Emiya.
It is a fight to the death.
Oh, Kirei, shut up!
[Rin] Listen to me.
The Holy Grail that appears
in this town
is a spiritual object.
Since it's intangible,
we can't touch it.
Can you guess what that implies?
[gasps]
Right.
The point of the Holy Grail War
is to eliminate the servants
of all the other masters,
which means that there
is no rule saying you have
to kill the other masters
in order to win.
Shirou Emiya,
if I may ask a question,
do you think that you
are remotely capable
of defeating your servant?
Huh?
Servants are very difficult
to overcome
even with another servant.
So how does one prevail?
The answer is obvious,
is it not?
[Kirei] No matter how clever
or powerful the servant,
if its master ceases
to be alive,
the servant vanishes with him,
in which case...
[exhales sharply]
The quickest way is killing
the master.
[Kirei] Exactly.
[Shirou] But what if
a master's servant
is destroyed first?
Only servants can touch
the Holy Grail, right?
So a master who's lost
his servant
no longer has any value
in the war.
[Kirei] No.
As long
as his command seals remain,
so do his rights
as a master.
He still has the chance
to rejoin the war
by teaming up with a servant
that has lost its master
and has nowhere to go.
And it is for that reason
that masters kill masters.
Okay, what if I used all
my command seals right now?
Wait, no!
Don't do that!
As you surmised,
your rights as a master
would indeed be lost.
Although, I cannot imagine
a mage using magic
as powerful as command seals
in a manner so wasteful
and immature.
If there were one,
he would either be
an ignorant novice
or merely a coward not worthy
of the craft.
‐ [grunts]
‐ [Kirei chuckles]
Have I convinced you?
Then let us go back
to the beginning, Shirou Emiya.
If you insist on forfeiting
your status as master,
you may do so.
Simply use up your command seals
and break your pact with Saber.
Should you choose that path,
I shall guarantee your safety
until this Holy Grail War comes
to an end.
Guarantee my safety?
Why would I need
to be protected by you?
[scoffs]
[Kirei] I was dispatched
to this city
to officially oversee the series
of Holy Grail Wars.
Safeguarding the mages
who are no longer masters
is one of the overseers'
top priorities.
Wait, you said series.
[Shirou] Hang on.
Are you saying that
the Holy Grail War
didn't begin just now?
This one is the fifth.
The previous one
was ten years ago,
making this the shortest cycle
in the long history of the war.
I can't believe this
has happened before.
[Kirei] Yes,
and with each new generation
of masters summoned,
the Grail War
has grown ever more brutal.
Driven by desire,
masters have engaged
in vicious deeds
including
indiscriminate slaughter.
How could anyone think
of doing that?
So what happens if the guy
who wins the Grail
is a complete and total bastard?
It is beyond our ability
to stop one whom the Grail
has chosen from using the cup.
After all,
it is the omnipotent chalice
that grants any wish.
If that is not acceptable
to you, Shirou Emiya,
then go out and win it yourself.
[Kirei] If you do then at
the very least
it will not end up in the hands
of an indiscriminate killer.
[Shirou groans]
No.
I have no reason to fight.
I see.
So you have no interest at all
in what the holder
of the Grail does,
even if there is a disaster
as a result
of his all too human flaws?
I didn't say that.
If you have no reason to fight,
then fine.
Should I also assume
that you have no interest
in the disastrous events
of ten years ago?
Ten years ago?
[Kirei] Indeed.
At the very end
of the previous Grail War,
an unworthy master touched
the Holy Grail.
I know not what it was
that master wished for.
All that is clear
is the aftermath
of the disaster that resulted
from his wish.
Wait just a minute.
I don't believe it.
Are you saying...
I am.
Kirei] The New City fire
whose cause remains unknown
to this day is actually
the aftermath
of that Holy Grail War.
[Rin] Emiya!
[grunts]
You said that this one
is the fifth time.
Has anyone in the past ever
actually won the grail, then?
[Kirei] One man did indeed hold
the Grail in his hands
however briefly.
Did he get his wish?
What happened to him?
[Kirei] Nothing at all.
[exhales]
It seems that Grail
did not achieve completion.
[Kirei] The result
of a foolish man
letting sentiment get
the better of him.
Simply making the Grail appear
is trivial.
Once the seven servants
are gathered,
the Grail will appear in time.
As Rin says,
it is not necessary to slay
the other masters,
but unless you do so,
the Grail will not be complete.
It chooses the master who
is worthy
to command its unlimited power.
That is why this man
who avoided fighting
did not officially win
the Grail.
[scoffs]
In other words,
even if you do get the Grail,
it's pointless if you don't
finish off all
the other masters.
You see,
the master who got his hands
on the Grail in the last war
was weak.
That is all I have to day.
You need to decide right here
and now if you will participate
in the Holy Grail War,
Shirou Emiya.
[tense music]
[grunts]
♪♪ ♪♪
You ought to be rejoicing, boy.
The wish in your heart
will at last come true.
[grunts]
[Kirei] Surely you've realized
by now
that your wish
will not come true without
a clear and distinct villain.
Even if you refuse
to admit it to yourself,
a hero of justice must have
a villain to defeat.
Without that,
all your battles
will be meaningless.
[gate creaks]
Shirou.
Is your business concluded?
It is.
[gate creaks]
[Saber] And?
I've decided I"m gonna fight
as a master.
I need to know
if you'll consent
to serving a novice like me.
But my consent is irrelevant.
Shirou, you have been my master
from the start.
Did I not swear a solemn oath
to you that
I would be your blade?
[Shirou] Right.
Thanks.
Saber,
fight with me till the end.
I'll be counting on you.
What's wrong?
You don't wanna shake hands?
It's not that.
I was simply not expecting it.
I was startled.
[Saber] I will fight with you,
master.
So long as you have
command seals,
I will be your trusted blade.
[Shirou] If the Holy Grail War
was what caused the fire
and all that death
ten years ago,
then I can't let something
like that happen ever again.
Everything okay?
No offense,
but you should go home
by yourself.
Huh?
I brought you here
to see the priest
because you weren't officially
my enemy yet.
But now you're a fellow master
in this war.
Yeah, but I have no intention
of fighting you.
[grunts]
Aww, I should have known.
What was I thinking?
Why did I even bring him here?
‐ [Archer] Rin.
‐ What is it?
If an enemy is easy to slay,
then we ought to do so.
You don't have to tell me that,
okay?
[Archer] If you agree,
then take action.
Or wait.
Are you going to take pity
on that boy again?
[scoffs]
Just as I thought.
That is the case here.
Huh?
N‐‐No, it is not!
[Rin exhales]
I just, well...
I owe him,
you know?
And I can't fight
with a clear conscience until
I repay the debt.
[scoffs]
You are so difficult.
In that case,
call me when you have repaid
this debt of yours.
Wait, what debt?
Do you mean
what happened before?
Yes, of course.
Accidental or not,
you used a command seal
to stop Saber before
she killed us both.
So I have to go easy on you
for the time being
in order to balance the scales.
[Shirou] You get hung up
on the weirdest things.
[Rin] Yes, I know that.
I really have no choice.
Because I really hate being
in someone's debt.
[scoffs]
You know what?
You're really a good person.
[Rin] Flattery won't work.
I'm still your enemy.
I know that,
but I don't want us
to be enemies
if I can at all help it.
See, I really like
people like you.
[stammers]
See you around.
‐ [grunts]
‐ [Shirou] Mm?
So, are you all done chatting?
[gasps]
That's Berserker!
[Kalafina's "Believe"]
♪♪ ♪♪
[chorus singing
in foreign language]
♪♪ ♪♪
[singing in Japanese]